add redeeming docs (#108)
chainflip-io/chainflip-docs: pages/mainnet/validator-setup/redeeming-funds-and-retiring.mdx

# Redeeming Funds & Retiring

You can redeem your precious $FLIP, subject to certain conditions. In order to do so, the funds may neither be bonded, nor tied up in auction bidding.

For a detailed account of the process and its restrictions see [Redeeming ERC-20 FLIP through the Gateway](../../concepts/validator-network/state-chain-flip-gateway#redeeming-erc-20-flip-through-the-gateway).

## Retiring from Auctions

First of all, you need to end your participation in auctions. To do so, use the Chainflip CLI:

```bash copy
sudo chainflip-cli --config-root /etc/chainflip stop-bidding
```

Your node will cease to participate in auctions. You will have all remaining $FLIP credited to your balance upon the conclusion of the final auction. You will still need to follow the next steps to claim them.

## Redemption Process in Auctions App 

The redemption process is initiated via the [Chainflip Auctions App](https://auctions.chainflip.io/auctions) > **My Nodes** alongside the Chainflip CLI. You will need the address of the Ethereum account to which you want your $FLIP to be sent.

In the Auctions App, select "Redeem". This will guide you through the process.

> You have two options. By default, the command will redeem the maximum available funds from your account, taking into account the bond. For example, imagine your account balance is 1000 \$FLIP and the bond is 800 \$FLIP, the following would withdraw 795 \$FLIP net of tax, to the Ethereum account `0xcf..cf`:

Reviewer: i dont think 795 is right here. i think it should be 195?

```bash copy
sudo chainflip-cli redeem 0xcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcf
```

Alternatively, you can specify an exact amount you wish to redeem, say 50 $FLIP:

```bash copy
sudo chainflip-cli redeem --exact 50 0xcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcfcf
```

This process will generate a **Redemption Certificate** that will be sent to the Ethereum network.

Once you have completed the request, continue in the Auctions App, where the redemption should display.

### Redemption Tax

The network requires a **Redemption Tax of 5 $FLIP** per redemption. This is to reduce *redemption request spam*. These requests are expensive for the network to process, and the cost for this is now carried by the requester, via the tax.

### Waiting Period

> A waiting period of **48 hours** before it can be used to redeem. This delay is a security measure to limit the risk in Chainflip's Vaults.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A waiting period of **48 hours** applies before a certificate can be used to redeem. This delay is a security measure to limit the risk in Chainflip's Vaults.
```

For a detailed account of the process and its restrictions see [Redeeming ERC-20 FLIP through the Gateway](../../concepts/validator-network/state-chain-flip-gateway#redeeming-erc-20-flip-through-the-gateway).

## Retiring from Auctions

First of all, you need to end your participation in auctions. To do so, use the Chainflip CLI:

```bash copy
sudo chainflip-cli --config-root /etc/chainflip stop-bidding
```

Your node will cease to participate in auctions. You will have all remaining $FLIP credited to your balance upon the conclusion of the final auction. You will still need to follow the next steps to claim them.

## Redemption Process in Auctions App 

The redemption process is initiated via the [Chainflip Auctions App](https://auctions.chainflip.io/auctions) > **My Nodes** alongside the Chainflip CLI. You will need the address of the Ethereum account to which you want your $FLIP to be sent.

In the Auctions App, select "Redeem". This will guide you through the process.

You have two options. By default, the command will redeem the maximum available funds from your account, taking into account the bond. 

**Example:** 

> 
> Imagine your account balance is **1000 \$FLIP** and the bond is **800 \$FLIP**. 
> 
> You can redeem **200 \$FLIP** minus the tax, to the Ethereum account `0xcf..cf`: 
> 
> **195 \$FLIP** net.

Reviewer: lots of new line here now. not sure if that was intended

```suggestion

Imagine your account balance is **1000 \$FLIP** and the bond is **800 \$FLIP**.  You can redeem **200 \$FLIP** minus the tax, to the Ethereum account `0xcf..cf`: **195 \$FLIP** net.
```

Author: that format is intented :D
